CA:  Certificate Authorities 
SSL: Secure Scoket Layer, SSL is the old name. It is called TLS these days.
TSL: Transport Layer Security

SSL was originally developed by Netscape and first came onto the scene way back in 1995 with SSL 2.0 
(1.0 was never released to the public).  Version 2.0 was quickly replaced by SSL 3.0 in 1996 after a number of 
vulnerabilities were found.  Note: Versions 2.0 and 3.0 are sometimes written as SSLv2 and SSLv3.

TLS was introduced in 1999 as a new version of SSL and was based on SSL 3.0:
" The differences between this protocol and SSL 3.0 are not dramatic, but they are significant enough that TLS 1.0 and SSL 3.0 
do not interoperate. "
TLS is currently at v. 1.3 (defined in FRF 8446 in August 2018).

it’s important to note that certificates are not dependent on protocols. 
That is, you don’t need to use a TLS Certificate vs. an SSL Certificate. While many vendors tend to use 
the phrase “SSL/TLS Certificate”, it may be more accurate to call them “Certificates for use with SSL and TLS", 
since the protocols are determined by your server configuration, not the certificates themselves.

It’s worth noting here that SSL and TLS simply refer to the handshake that takes place between a client and a server. 
The handshake doesn’t actually do any encryption itself, it just agrees on a shared secret and type of encryption 
that is going to be used.


HTTPS要使客户端与服务器端的通信过程得到安全保证，必须使用的对称加密算法，但是协商对称加密算法的过程，需要使用非对称加密算法来保证安全，
然而直接使用非对称加密的过程本身也不安全，会有中间人篡改公钥的可能性，所以客户端与服务器不直接使用公钥，而是使用数字证书签发机构颁发的证书
来保证非对称加密过程本身的安全。这样通过这些机制协商出一个对称加密算法，就此双方使用该算法进行加密解密。从而解决了客户端与服务器端之间的
通信安全问题。

CA Types

DV SSL
DV SSL证书是只验证网站域名所有权的简易型（Class 1级）SSL证书，可10分钟快速颁发，能起到加密传输的作用，但无法向用户证明网站的真实身份。
目前市面上的免费证书都是这个类型的，只是提供了对数据的加密，但是对提供证书的个人和机构的身份不做验证。

OV SSL
OV SSL,提供加密功能,对申请者做严格的身份审核验证,提供可信×××明。
和DV SSL的区别在于，OV SSL 提供了对个人或者机构的审核，能确认对方的身份，安全性更高。所以这部分的证书申请是收费的~

EV SSL
超安=EV=最安全、最严格 超安EV SSL证书遵循全球统一的严格身份验证标准，是目前业界安全级别最高的顶级 (Class 4级)SSL证书。
金融证券、银行、第三方支付、网上商城等，重点强调网站安全、企业可信形象的网站，涉及交易支付、客户隐私信息和账号密码的传输。
这部分的验证要求最高，申请费用也是最贵的。

根据保护域名的数量需求，SSL证书又分为：
单域名版：只保护一个域名，例如 www.abc.com 或者 login.abc.com 之类的单个域名
多域名版：一张证书可以保护多个域名，例如同时保护 www.abc.com , www.bcd.com, pay.efg.com 等
通配符版：一张证书保护同一个主域名下同一级的所有子域名，不限个数，形如 *.abc.com 。
注意，通配符版只有 DVSSL 和 OVSSL 具有， EVSSL 不具有通配符版本。

