A shell provides
-- a prompt for the user to communicate by starting, managing, interacting with and ending processes
-- a container for processes and variables
-- Any shell can create a new shell.
-- The new shell is considered a child process—a subshell—of the parent shell that creates it.
-- By default, if the parent process terminates, the subshell also terminates.
-- In a Bash shell script, you create a subshell using the parenthesis notation.
-- Unless you specify that the subshell is to be executed in the background, the parent shell waits for 
   the subshell to finish before continuing with the rest of the script. 
-- You may run subshell in the background, with the ampersand character '&' following the subshell expression.
-- If each command is executed in a different subshell, there is no risk that variable settings will be mixed up.


When you invoke a subshell, any processes started in that shell are contained within it. Any data items that are created die 
with the shell unless they are committed to some persistent storage - perhaps written to a file on a hard drive or 
exported from the parent shell to new shells. 


----------------------------------------  '()' vs '{}'  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Grouping commands '(lits)' vs '{ list; }'

Bash provides two ways to group a list of commands to be executed as a unit. When commands are grouped, redirections may 
be applied to the entire command list. For example, the output of all the commands in the list may be redirected to a single stream.

()
Formats: (list)
Placing a list of commands between parentheses causes a subshell environment to be created (see Command Execution Environment), 
and each of the commands in list to be executed in that subshell. Since the list is executed in a subshell, variable assignments 
DO NOT remain in effect after the subshell completes.

{}
Fromats: { list; }
Placing a list of commands between curly braces causes the list to be executed in the current shell context. No subshell is created. 
The SEMICOLON (or newline) following list is required.

In addition to the creation of a subshell, there is a subtle difference between these two constructs due to historical reasons. 
The braces are reserved words, so they must be separated from the list by BLANKs or other shell metacharacters. 
The parentheses are operators, and are recognized as separate tokens by the shell even if they are not separated from the list 
by whitespace.

The exit status of both of these constructs is the exit status of list.



--------------------------------------  subshell vs script -------------------------------------------------------------------------
A subshell starts out as an almost identical copy of the original shell process.  Under the hood, the shell calls the
fork system call1, which creates a new process whose code and memory are copies2. When the subshell is created, there
are very few differences between it and its parent. In particular, they have the same variables. Even the $$ special
variable keeps the same value in subshells: it's the original shell's process ID. Similarly $PPID is the PID of the
parent of the original shell.

A few shells change a few variables in the subshell. Bash sets BASHPID to the PID of the shell process, which changes in
subshells. Bash, zsh and mksh arrange for $RANDOM to yield different values in the parent and in the subshell. But apart
from built-in special cases like these, all variables have the same value in the subshell as in the original shell, the
same export status, the same read-only status, etc. All function definitions, alias definitions, shell options and other
settings are inherited as well.

A subshell created by (…) has the same file descriptors as its creator. Some other means of creating subshells modify
some file descriptors before executing user code; for example, the left-hand side of a pipe runs in a subshell3 with
standard output connected to the pipe. The subshell also starts out with the same current directory, the same signal
mask, etc. One of the few exceptions is that subshells do not inherit custom traps: ignored signals (trap '' SIGNAL)
remain ignored in the subshell, but other traps (trap CODE SIGNAL) are reset to the default action4.

A subshell is thus different from executing a script. A script is a separate program. This separate program might
coincidentally be also a script which is executed by the same interpreter as the parent, but this coincidence doesn't
give the separate program any special visibility on internal data of the parent.  Non-exported variables are internal
data, so when the interpreter for the child shell script is executed, it doesn't see these variables. Exported
variables, i.e.  environment variables, are transmitted to executed programs.

Thus:
x=1 (echo $x) prints 1 because the subshell is a replication of the shell that spawned it.

x=1 sh -c 'echo $x' happens to run a shell as a child process of a shell, but the x on the second line has no more
connection with the x on the second line than in

x=1 perl -le 'print $x' or

x=1 python -c 'print x'



